h1. FragIt

FragIt is a python based tool that allows you to quickly fragment "any":http://openbabel.org/docs/2.3.0/FileFormats/Overview.html molecule and use the output as an input file in quantum chemistry programs that supports such fragment based methods.

FragIt was made out of the need to quickly benchmark many different molecules while developing a new fragment based method and is now beig released in the hope that it is useful for others.

Currently, the only supported method is the "fragment molecular orbital":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fragment_Molecular_Orbital method in "GAMESS":http://www.msg.ameslab.gov/gamess/index.html, but new outut writers can be added easily to support other methods and programs.

There is also a version available which requires only a browser and Java. Look at "the FragIt homepage":http://www.fragit.org for more info.

h2. Obtaining FragIt

Since you found this file, it is obvious that you also found the source code. If you didn't, you can obtain the latest version from

"www.github.com/FragIt/fragit-main":http://www.github.com/FragIt/fragit-main

h2. Installing FragIt

Installation is quite easy if you have the nescessary requirements installed. Just download the tarball and unpack it or clone the git repository. To run FragIt, simply point python to the fragit folder

python path-to-fragit-folder/fragit.py

which displays its help message.

h2. Requirements

In order to run FragIt, you *need* the following installed on your system:

* The FragIt source code, look above for information on how to obtain it
* "Open Babel":http://www.openbabel.org 2.3 or newer with python language bindings enabled.
* "Numpy":http://numpy.scipy.org 1.5 or newer.
* "Python":http://www.python.org version 2.6, we are currently working on making FragIt support version 2.7.
